# Curiosity Report

## Load balancers

Load balancers help distribute traffic on a network between a group of servers to ensure equal usage of all servers. They help websites and apps to process different volumes of traffic. They help users have reliable and seamless interactions with the website. Load balancers help with latency. For example, without a load balancer, if there are 4 servers and 8 requests, all 8 of the requests might go to 1 of the servers, which could overload the server. With a load balancer, each of the servers could take 2 requests, which would spread the load and increase response time. From my research, this is typically how load balancing works:

1. The user sends information as a request.
2. The load balancer receives the request from the user.
3. The load balancer determines which server should be best to handle the request.
   Uses an algorithm to make this decision: - Dynamic algorithms (factors in the current state of the servers - load balancer must perform server health monitoring more frequently): - Least connection: Monitors which servers have the least availability, and sends requests to these servers. This algorithm works under the assumption that all requests take about the same time and resources to complete. - Weighted least connection: Allows the dev ops team to assign different handling capabilities to different servers. This algorithm works under the assumption that some servers have different capacities. - Weighted response time: Keeps track of the response time from servers and factors that information as well as the number of connection each server has to decide the best server to send traffic to. This algorithm tries to calculate and predict which server will respond a response the fastest. - Resource-based: Factors CPU and memory of each server into account and sends requests to servers based on the amount of server resources. - Static load balancers (decisions are independent of the state of the servers) - Round Robin: Rotates through the servers in rotation using the DNS - Weighted round robin: Similar to weighted least connection, where dev ops teams can assign different capabilities to servers, and servers which can handle more traffic receive a little bit more traffic. - IP hash - Hashes the traffic’s destination IP address to assign requests to specific servers.
4. The load balancer routes the request to the chosen server, which then handles and processes the request and returns a response to the user
5. In the meantime, the load balancer monitors the health of the servers to make sure that requests only get routed to functioning servers. If a server isn’t working properly, it makes sure that requests are redirected to the remaining servers that are working.
6. The load balancer also monitors the traffic levels and adjusts the number of servers accordingly. If there is more traffic, it can add servers to help ease the load. However, if there is less traffic, it can remove servers to cut down on costs and unnecessary resources.

Static load balancers are typically helpful with websites that are more static. The load balancer doesn’t have to as much work because the traffic tends to be predictable and consistent. The static load balancer doesn’t have to figure out the server’s response times or capabilities.

Dynamic load balancers are better for websites that have varying levels of traffic that changes throughout the day, week, or year. In practical use, it seems like most companies would want to use a dynamic load balancer because it tends to provide a better user experience.
