# Incident: 2024-11-09 03:25 03-26-03

## Summary

Between the hour of 15:03 and 15:05 on 11/9/24, 3 users encountered the inability to order pizzas. The event was triggered by a shutdown of the order API at 3:03pm.

The event was detected by our Grafana metrics and logging. The team started working on the event by tracing the errors within the logs and remedying the root cause. This major incident affected 2% of users.

## Detection

This incident was detected when the Grafana error logs were triggered and Rebekah Erikson was notified. The incident was caught and fixed within two minutes of the error being detected.

## Impact

For 2 minutes between {22:03 UTC and 22:05 UTC} on 11/09/2024, our users experienced an inability to purchase pizzas.

This incident affected 3 customers.

0 support tickets were submitted.

## Timeline

All times are UTC.

- _22:03_ - The order endpoint shut down
- _22:03_ - Error message is sent to our ops team via Grafana On Call
- _22:05_ - Ops team go to Grafana dashboard and identifies the error that occurred and traces the problem
- _22:05_ - Ops team identifies problem, fixes the chaos and restores order to the kingdom

## Response

Who responded to the incident? When did they respond, and what did they do? Note any delays or obstacles to responding.

**EXAMPLE**:

After receiving a page at 22:03 UTC, Rebekah Erikson came online at 22:05 UTC in our Grafana dashboard.

# Root cause

Our order endpoint shut down.

## Resolution

We found the url to fix the chaos that had been wreaked on our system, and navigated to it, which resolved the issue.

We responded promptly to the incident, and were able to only have two minutes of downtime on the endpoint.
